---
layout: post
title: Availability of Data in Nepal
tags:
- data availability
- data science nepal
---

With the unfolding of new data analyzing technologies, the use of data for solving a wide range of issues has escalated over the past few years. However, Nepal is still lagging behind the rest of the world in prioritizing the importance of data-driven solutions to various problems. In this article, we will discuss the importance of data-driven approaches and why Nepal is held back in data science.

<h3>Why use data-driven approaches?</h3>
Why is everybody talking about data? If you are new to this field or if you are from a non-technical background, you might be wondering why people are focusing on data? What is this buzzword?

Simply put, data is a collection of facts and figures from any field. For instance, your actions are data; what you do, what you eat, when you eat, how you eat, and many more.

<h3>Why do I need to care about collecting these data?</h3>

The fitness trackers like Galaxy watch and Apple watch collect your health data. These data can be used to study the fitness trend of individuals. For instance, we can compare the workout routine of a person with a healthy heart and that with an unhealthy heart, which will help in deciding the workout plans that help in preventing cardiovascular diseases.

Besides that, data analysis has a wide range of implementation in businesses and government sectors. The question then arises as to why a data-driven approach outclasses other methodologies to attain a goal? I will explain this with the help of our approach at Programiz.

We recently designed and implemented a new design for our website. We have, without a doubt, some of the best designers and developers in our team. They have worked tirelessly on the design for a long time; however, we did not conduct a survey with the end-users at the designing phase.

The website visitors are the ones who use the website features. Our aim is to aid the visitors in accessing our website content without any hassle. However, many users have found some of our new designs annoying. No doubt they follow the best design approach, but still, they lack user satisfaction. The progress bar sticking on the top of the menu bar looks annoying to many readers.



Although the progress bar boosts the web page's aesthetics, it has not satisfied all the users. By collecting the data on what percentage of people like new features, we can conclude on whether to continue with the new feature or to dismantle it. The progress bar might be good for another realm of websites, but it may not suit our website, which is specially designed for our particular readers.

By now, I hope you have understood, to some extent, why to choose data-driven approach over conventional approaches.
<h3>Data usage in the rest of the world</h3>
I estimate everybody is accustomed to how Facebook uses your data, how Facebook records your activity on different posts and feeds you similar posts in the future. Facebook is utilizing your data hoping to flood you with the best posts so that you spend more time on their applications. Likewise, Amazon uses the customer's choice of product as the data and feeds them with the related items.

Most successful companies have data analytics teams to monitor their growth and analyze their shortcomings. The data scientists work on producing meaningful results from the data collected by the company.

<h3>History of data collection in Nepal</h3>
The data collection at the government level in Nepal traces back to 1959 when the Central Bureau of Statistics was established. Since then, different departments have continued the collection of data at various levels, but not all of them are stored digitally, which makes it difficult to work on them.
<h3>Obstacles to data analysis in Nepal</h3>
I was planning to make a bar chart race amination showing the number of active COVID cases in each province. So, I found an official repository of the data. In the early reports, the data were represented in pdf format as in the figure below.

And, the province affected was written in the text. I manually collected data from the pdf's and created my own database. I decided to get rid of manual updating of data, so I started looking for solutions. The same format continued for almost two months with a number of changes in the pdf. After about two months, the data were presented as below.

After a few days, they published the data on province-wise active cases, only to later remove that data. For each pdf, the code for gathering data had to be changed. This inconsistency in the presentation of data forced me to stop updating the data required for the bar chart race. In addition, the data published on a day was conflicting in itself. The total number of cases, when compared to the sum of cases in each province, were not matching in some cases.

The above example was just a sample of the inconsistency and inaccuracy in the publishing of data, which leads to difficulty in data collection for data scientists. Other major obstacles for data scientists in Nepal are:
Sufficient tools are not present for scraping data written in Devnagari fonts
Data are not digitized
No regular updating of data in government offices
Lack of manpower skilled at collecting data
<h3>A few sources of public data in Nepal</h3>
Some of the sources of data available for the public in Nepal are:
<ol>
<li><a href="http://nationaldata.gov.np/">National Data Profile</a></li>
<li><a href="https://opendatanepal.com/">Open Data Nepal</a></li>
<li><a href="https://cbs.gov.np/">Central Bureau of Statistics</a></li>
<li><a href="https://nepalindata.com/">Nepal in Data</a></li>
<li><a href="https://data.worldbank.org/country/NP">World Bank Nepal Data</a></li>
<li><a href="https://www.ieee-dataport.org/open-access/nepali-text-corpus">Nepali Text Corpus</a></li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/amitness/ml-datasets">Dataset for Machine Learning-Amitness</a> (includes data about finance, audio, geography, disaster, health, real-time sensor, image, and text)</li>
<li><a href="https://www.kaggle.com/rtatman/urdunepali-parallel-corpus">Urdu-Nepali Parallel Corpus</a></li>
</ol>